README.md, before:

# Neovim Dot Files

This repository contains Neovim dot files for **wassou93**.

## Prerequisites

To build Neovim from source, you need to have the following pre-requisites installed on your system:

- libtool
- autoconf
- automake
- cmake
- libncurses5-dev
- g++
- gettext

### Quick Neovim Installation Guide

To install latest Neovim, the best option is to build it from source and integrate it with your system, follow these steps:

1. **Remove previous nvim installations:**
   ```bash
   sudo apt remove neovim neovim-runtime
   sudo apt autoremove
   ```
3. **Clone the Neovim repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/neovim/neovim
   ```
4. **Navigate to the cloned repository:**
   ```bash
   cd neovim
   ```
5. **Checkout the stable branch:**
   ```bash
   git checkout stable
   ```
6. **Build Neovim:**
   ```bash
   make CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
   ```
7. **Install Neovim:**
   - For Ubuntu/Debian based systems:
     ```bash
     cd build && cpack -G DEB && sudo apt install ./nvim-linux64.deb
     ```
   - For other systems:
     ```bash
     sudo make install
     ```

Note: The default installation location is `/usr/local`.

To uninstall Neovim, you can either run the following command:
```bash
sudo cmake --build build/ --target uninstall
```
Or delete the `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` artifacts:
```bash
sudo rm /usr/local/bin/nvim
sudo rm -r /usr/local/share/nvim/
```

### Install Rust
`curl --proto '=https' --tlsv2.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh`

### Install Rust Analyser
Install rust-analyzer:
`rustup component add rust-analyzer --toolchain stable`
You can also install rust-src for better debugging
`rustup component add rust-src`

### Install Node.js

- **nodejs**
  
   ```bash
    sudo apt install nodejs
    ```
- **npm**
  
   ```bash
    sudo apt install npm
    ```
   
### Install Tree-sitter

- Install tree-sitter

   ```bash
   yarn global add tree-sitter-cli
   # Or
   sudo apt install tree-sitter-cli
   # Or
   cargo install tree-sitter-cli
    ```
### Install python3-pip and python3-neovim

- Install python3-pip and python3-neovim using below commands:

  ```bash
  sudo apt install python3-pip
  sudo apt install python3-neovim
  ```
### Install Live-Server

- Install live-server as it's needed by live-server plugin

   ```bash
   sudo npm install --global live-server
    ```
   
- *NOTE:* You might want to edit `/usr/local/node-v20.11.0-linux-x64/lib/node_modules/live-server/live-server.js` change version number as per your node version.
- Open this file via editor and make sure there is no hidden carriage returns at the end of the first line:
   ```lua
   #!/usr/bin/env node -- delete this new line and create it again
   var path = require('path');
   ...
   ``` 
### Install EVCXR - Rust terminal Interpreter
Install using cargo:
`cargo install evcxr_repl`
You can also alias it with rust in `.bashrc`

## Neovim Dotfiles Installation

1. Clone this repository into the `Downloads` folder:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/wassou93/nvim.git
    ```

    After cloning, copy the `nvim` folder to `~/.config`.

    ```bash
    cp -r nvim ~/.config/
    ```

    This ensures the configuration is in the correct location.

2. Install Packer extension manager using below command:

> Unix, Linux Installation

```shell
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim\
 ~/.local/share/nvim/site/pack/packer/start/packer.nvim
```

> If you use Arch Linux, there is also [an AUR package](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/nvim-packer-git/).

3. Open `.config/nvim/` directory in neovim.
4. Press `q` mutliple times to ignore errors.
5. Press `<leader>pv` to return to nvim Explrer
6. Go to `./lua/wassou/packer.lua`
7. `:so` to source the file
8. Sync (add/update/remove) extensions:

    ```vim
    :PackerSync
    ```

9. Get installed Language Server Protocols (LSPs):

    ```vim
    :LspInfo
    ```

10. Install Language Server Protocols using Mason:

    ```vim
    :Mason
    ```

    - Scroll and press `i` to install the desired LSP server.
    - Ensure the backend is already installed on the system.

11. Enable transparency:

    ```vim
    :lua ColorMyPencils()
    ```

    This Lua command enables transparency.

## Troubleshooting

- If you're getting: `nvim-treesitter[vimdoc]: Error during compilation`
```bash
vi ~/.local/share/nvim/site/pack/packer/start/nvim-treesitter/lua/nvim-treesitter/shell_command_selectors.lua
```
- Add add `-std=c99` flag to `select_compiler_args` shown below in line 95:
  ```lua
   function M.select_compiler_args(repo, compiler)
  if string.match(compiler, "cl$") or string.match(compiler, "cl.exe$") then
    return {
      "/Fe:",
      "parser.so",
      "/Isrc",
      repo.files,
      "-Os",
      "/LD",
      "-std=c99", -- line 95
    }
   ...
  ```

## Install TMux 
1. Install TMux using below command:
```bash
sudo apt install tmux 
```
2. Then copy configuration file from nvim repo:
```bash
cp -r ./tmux ~/.config/
```
3. Install TPM (TMux Plugin Manager):
```bash
git clone https://github.com/tmux-plugins/tpm ~/.tmux/plugins/tpm
```
4. Open `~/.config/tmux/tmux.conf` file in nvim 
5. Press `<C-b>r` to source `tmux.conf`
6. Press `<C-s>I` to install tmux plugins

Now, your Neovim and TMux setups are ready to go!

Commit message:

Add Alacritty install steps to README.md

README.md, after:

# Neovim Dot Files

This repository contains Neovim dot files for **wassou93**.

## Prerequisites

To build Neovim from source, you need to have the following pre-requisites installed on your system:

- libtool
- autoconf
- automake
- cmake
- libncurses5-dev
- g++
- gettext

### Quick Neovim Installation Guide

To install latest Neovim, the best option is to build it from source and integrate it with your system, follow these steps:

1. **Remove previous nvim installations:**
   ```bash
   sudo apt remove neovim neovim-runtime
   sudo apt autoremove
   ```
3. **Clone the Neovim repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/neovim/neovim
   ```
4. **Navigate to the cloned repository:**
   ```bash
   cd neovim
   ```
5. **Checkout the stable branch:**
   ```bash
   git checkout stable
   ```
6. **Build Neovim:**
   ```bash
   make CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
   ```
7. **Install Neovim:**
   - For Ubuntu/Debian based systems:
     ```bash
     cd build && cpack -G DEB && sudo apt install ./nvim-linux64.deb
     ```
   - For other systems:
     ```bash
     sudo make install
     ```

Note: The default installation location is `/usr/local`.

To uninstall Neovim, you can either run the following command:
```bash
sudo cmake --build build/ --target uninstall
```
Or delete the `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` artifacts:
```bash
sudo rm /usr/local/bin/nvim
sudo rm -r /usr/local/share/nvim/
```

### Install Rust
`curl --proto '=https' --tlsv2.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh`

### Install Rust Analyser
Install rust-analyzer:
`rustup component add rust-analyzer --toolchain stable`
You can also install rust-src for better debugging
`rustup component add rust-src`

### Install Node.js

- **nodejs**
  
   ```bash
    sudo apt install nodejs
    ```
- **npm**
  
   ```bash
    sudo apt install npm
    ```
   
### Install Tree-sitter

- Install tree-sitter

   ```bash
   yarn global add tree-sitter-cli
   # Or
   sudo apt install tree-sitter-cli
   # Or
   cargo install tree-sitter-cli
    ```
### Install python3-pip and python3-neovim

- Install python3-pip and python3-neovim using below commands:

  ```bash
  sudo apt install python3-pip
  sudo apt install python3-neovim
  ```
### Install Live-Server

- Install live-server as it's needed by live-server plugin

   ```bash
   sudo npm install --global live-server
    ```
   
- *NOTE:* You might want to edit `/usr/local/node-v20.11.0-linux-x64/lib/node_modules/live-server/live-server.js` change version number as per your node version.
- Open this file via editor and make sure there is no hidden carriage returns at the end of the first line:
   ```lua
   #!/usr/bin/env node -- delete this new line and create it again
   var path = require('path');
   ...
   ``` 
### Install EVCXR - Rust terminal Interpreter
Install using cargo:
`cargo install evcxr_repl`
You can also alias it with rust in `.bashrc`

## Neovim Dotfiles Installation

1. Clone this repository into the `Downloads` folder:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/wassou93/nvim.git
    ```

    After cloning, copy the `nvim` folder to `~/.config`.

    ```bash
    cp -r nvim ~/.config/
    ```

    This ensures the configuration is in the correct location.

2. Install Packer extension manager using below command:

> Unix, Linux Installation

```shell
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim\
 ~/.local/share/nvim/site/pack/packer/start/packer.nvim
```

> If you use Arch Linux, there is also [an AUR package](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/nvim-packer-git/).

3. Open `.config/nvim/` directory in neovim.
4. Press `q` mutliple times to ignore errors.
5. Press `<leader>pv` to return to nvim Explrer
6. Go to `./lua/wassou/packer.lua`
7. `:so` to source the file
8. Sync (add/update/remove) extensions:

    ```vim
    :PackerSync
    ```

9. Get installed Language Server Protocols (LSPs):

    ```vim
    :LspInfo
    ```

10. Install Language Server Protocols using Mason:

    ```vim
    :Mason
    ```

    - Scroll and press `i` to install the desired LSP server.
    - Ensure the backend is already installed on the system.

11. Enable transparency:

    ```vim
    :lua ColorMyPencils()
    ```

    This Lua command enables transparency.

## Troubleshooting

- If you're getting: `nvim-treesitter[vimdoc]: Error during compilation`
```bash
vi ~/.local/share/nvim/site/pack/packer/start/nvim-treesitter/lua/nvim-treesitter/shell_command_selectors.lua
```
- Add add `-std=c99` flag to `select_compiler_args` shown below in line 95:
  ```lua
   function M.select_compiler_args(repo, compiler)
  if string.match(compiler, "cl$") or string.match(compiler, "cl.exe$") then
    return {
      "/Fe:",
      "parser.so",
      "/Isrc",
      repo.files,
      "-Os",
      "/LD",
      "-std=c99", -- line 95
    }
   ...
  ```

## Install TMux 
1. Install TMux using below command:
```bash
sudo apt install tmux 
```
2. Then copy configuration file from nvim repo:
```bash
cp -r ./tmux ~/.config/
```
3. Install TPM (TMux Plugin Manager):
```bash
git clone https://github.com/tmux-plugins/tpm ~/.tmux/plugins/tpm
```

## Install Alacritty 
1. Install Alacritty using package manager or build it from source.
2. Then copy configuration file from nvim repo:
```bash
cp -r ./alacritty ~/.config/
```

Now, your Neovim, TMux and Alacritty setups are ready to go!
